.\" Copyright 2023 Roderick W. Smith (rodsmith@rodsbooks.com)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU Free Documentation License version 1.3 or
any later version
.TH "REFIND-SB-HEALTHCHECK" "8" "0.14.0" "Roderick W. Smith" "rEFInd Manual"
.SH "NAME"
refind-sb-healthcheck \- Interactively check and update Shim and Secure Boot keys
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BI "refind-sb-healthcheck "

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Booting via Secure Boot relies upon a number of keys and, in most cases
under Linux, the an EFI binary known as Shim (typically \fIshimx64.efi\fR
for x86-64 computers). This Shim binary, and the keys upon which the whole
process relies, can age out of usefulness. Because most distributions are
not rEFInd-centric, keeping the keys and Shim binary up-to-date falls on the
individual system administrator. The \fIrefind-sb-healthcheck\fR script
helps with that; it performs a number of checks, and can optionally update
binaries and key files (but not public keys stored in NVRAM):

.TP
.B *
The script first attempts to identify the Shim binary that launched the
current boot session. The script then searches the EFI System Partition
(ESP) and \fI/usr\fR for newer Shim binaries (as identified by the files'
timestamps). If any newer Shim binaries are found, the script offers to
update the currently-in-use Shim with the newer binary. The MokManager
program (\fImmx64.efi\fR on x86-64 systems) is updated along with Shim.

.TP
.B *
The \fIrefind-install\fR script generates local rEFInd keys, to be used when
signing rEFInd binaries that are not signed or to override existing
signatures. These keys have a 10-year lifespan by default. The
\fIrefind-sb-healthcheck\fR script checks the age of the current local
rEFInd signing key and, if it's expired or within one year of expiration,
offers to replace the existing key. Note that, even if the user opts to
update the key, existing rEFInd binaries are not re-signed. The new key may
be added to the MOK list, but if the rEFInd key was added to the Secure Boot
db, updating the db is left to the user.

.TP
.B *
The Machine Owner Key (MOK) list is stored in NVRAM. It can contain keys for
rEFInd, Linux distributions, and other keys, all of which will eventually
expire. The \fIrefind-sb-healthcheck\fR script scans the MOK and reports if
there are any expired keys or keys that will expire within a year. If the
user wants to update such keys, the user must track down appropriate updates
and install them manually with \fImokutil\fR or \fIMokManager\fR. Note that
keeping expired keys in the MOK is not necessarily a problem, although
deleting expired keys is advisable from a security point of view. Also,
expired keys have probably been updated by their maintainers, so their
updates should probably be installed.

.TP
.B *
\fIrefind-sb-healthcheck\fR scans the Secure Boot db, KEK, and PK for
expired keys much as it scans the MOK list. The issues here are similar,
except that these keys cannot be easily updated by the user without first
taking full control of the Secure Boot subsystem. Updates provided by
Microsoft, a Linux distribution, or a computer manufacturer may, however,
include updates to one or more of these key sets.

.SH "OPTIONS"

\fIrefind-sb-healthcheck\fR is an interactive program that provides no
command-line options. Instead, the program scans for the information it
needs, or occasionally asks the user for input depending on the environment
it discovers.

.SH "LIMITATIONS"

\fIrefind-sb-healthcheck\fR is a tool to assist in maintaining a rEFInd
installation that uses Secure Boot. It is not meant to completely and
automatically handle all Secure Boot maintenance tasks. Some notable
limitations include:

.TP
.B *
\fIrefind-sb-healthcheck\fR cannot update Secure Boot variables (except for
the MOK). Even updating the MOK requires a reboot and manual interaction
with MokManager at reboot.

.TP
.B *
\fIrefind-sb-healthcheck\fR relies on files' timestamps to locate Shim
binaries that are newer than the one currently in use. This is not
completely reliable; a binary that was recently copied using the default
\fIcp\fR flags will appear to be recent, even if it's very old by version
number standards.

.TP
.B *
The script does not attempt to maintain non-rEFInd key files, such as those
a user might maintain to sign kernel binaries or kernel modules.

.TP
.B *
\fIrefind-sb-healthcheck\fR incorporates a number of assumptions about the
locations of rEFInd key files, the existence of common support programs, and
the nature of the current installation. It may fail in unusual ways if these
assumptions are violated.

.TP
.B *

.TP
.B *

q

.SH "AUTHORS"
Primary author: Roderick W. Smith (rodsmith@rodsbooks.com)

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mvrefind (8),
.BR mkrlconf (8),
.BR refind-install (8),
.BR refind-mkdefault (8),
.BR efibootmgr (8).

\fIhttps://www.rodsbooks.com/refind/\fR

.SH "AVAILABILITY"
The \fBrefind-mkdefault\fR command is part of the \fIrEFInd\fR package and is
available from Roderick W. Smith.
