.\" Copyright 2015-2021 Roderick W. Smith (rodsmith@rodsbooks.com)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU Free Documentation License version 1.3 or
any later version
.TH "REFIND-INSTALL" "8" "0.13.3" "Roderick W. Smith" "rEFInd Manual"
.SH "NAME"
refind-install \- Install rEFInd to the ESP and create an NVRAM entry
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BI "refind-install "
[--notesp | --usedefault \fIdevice-file\fR | --root \fImount-point\fR |
--ownhfs \fIdevice-file\fR ] [--keepname] [--nodrivers | --alldrivers]
[--shim \fIshim-filename\fR] [--localkeys] [--encryptkeys] [--yes]


.SH "DESCRIPTION"

To be useful, the rEFInd boot manager must be installed to the computer's
EFI System Partition (ESP) or other EFI-accessible location. In most cases,
an NVRAM entry describing rEFInd's location must also be created. These
steps can be performed manually; however, the \fBrefind-install\fR command
provides an automated way to perform these tasks under both Linux and OS X.
The exact behavior and options vary depending on the OS, however.

Some details that can affect how the script runs include the following:

.TP
.B *
If you run the script as an ordinary user, it attempts to acquire
\fBroot\fR privileges by using the \fBsudo\fR command. This works on Mac OS
X and some Linux installations (such as under Ubuntu or if you've added
yourself to the \fBsudo\fR users list), but on some Linux installations
this will fail. On such systems, you should run \fBrefind\-install\fR as
root.

.TP
.B *
Under OS X, you can run the script with a mouse by opening a Terminal
session and then dragging\-and\-dropping the \fBrefind\-install\fR file to
the Terminal window. You'll need to press the Return or Enter key to run
the script.

.TP
.B *
If you're using OS X 10.7's Whole Disk Encryption (WDE) feature, or the
loogical volumes feature in OS X 10.10, you must install rEFInd to the ESP
or to a separate HFS+ partition. The default in rEFInd 0.8.4 and later is
to install to the ESP. If you prefer to use a separate HFS+ volume, the
\fB\-\-ownhfs \fIdevice-file\fR option to \fBrefind\-install\fR is required.

.TP
.B *
If you're not using WDE or logical volumes, you can install rEFInd to the
OS X root (/) partition by using the \-\-notesp option to
\fBrefind\-install\fR. Using this option is recommended when upgrading from
a working rEFInd installation in this location.

.TP
.B *
If you're replacing rEFIt with rEFInd on a Mac, there's a chance that
\fBrefind\-install\fR will warn you about the presence of a program called
\fB/Library/StartupItems/rEFItBlesser\fR and ask if you want to delete it.
This program is designed to keep rEFIt set as the boot manager by
automatically re\-blessing it if the default boot manager changes. This is
obviously undesirable if you install rEFInd as your primary boot manager,
so it's generally best to remove this program. If you prefer to keep your
options open, you can answer \fBN\fR when \fBrefind\-install\fR asks if you
want to delete rEFItBlesser, and instead manually copy it elsewhere. If you
subsequently decide to go back to using rEFIt as your primary boot manager,
you can restore rEFItBlesser to its place.

.TP
.B *
If you intend to boot BIOS-based OSes on a UEFI-based PC, you must edit the
\fBrefind.conf\fR file's \fBscanfor\fR line to enable the relevant
searches. This is not necessary on Macs, though; because of the popularity
of dual boots with Windows on Macs, the BIOS/legacy scans are enabled by
default on Macs.

.TP
.B *
On Linux, \fBrefind\-install\fR checks the filesystem type of the
\fB/boot\fR directory and, if a matching filesystem driver is available,
installs it. Note that the "\fB/boot\fR directory" may be on a separate
partition or it may be part of your root (\fB/\fR) filesystem, in which
case the driver for your root filesystem is installed. This feature is
unlikely to work properly from an emergency system, although it might if
you have a separate \fB/boot\fR partition and if you mount that partition
at \fB/boot\fR in your emergency system, and the ESP at \fB/boot/efi\fR.

.TP
.B *
On OS X, \fBrefind\-install\fR checks your partition tables for signs of a
Linux installation. If such a sign is found, the script installs the EFI
filesystem driver for the Linux ext4 filesystem. This will enable rEFInd to
read your Linux kernel if it's on an ext2, ext3, or ext4 filesystem. Note
that some configurations will require a \fB/boot/refind_linux.conf\fR file,
which can be reliably generated only under Linux. (The \fBmkrlconf\fR
script that comes with rEFInd will do this job once you've booted Linux.)
In the meantime, you can launch GRUB from rEFInd or press F2 or Insert
twice after highlighting the Linux option in rEFInd. This will enable you
to enter a \fBroot=\fI/dev/whatever\fR specification, where
\fI/dev/whatever\fR is the device identifier of your Linux root (\fB/\fR)
filesystem.

.TP
.B *
If you run \fBrefind\-install\fR on Linux and if
\fB/boot/refind_linux.conf\fR doesn't already exist, \fBrefind\-install\fR
creates this file and populates it with a few sample entries. If
\fB/boot\fR is on a FAT partition (or HFS+ on a Mac), or if it's on an
ext2fs, ext3fs, ext4fs, ReiserFS, Btrfs, or HFS+ partition and you install
an appropriate driver, the result is that rEFInd will detect your kernel
and will probably boot it correctly. Some systems will require manual
tweaking to \fBrefind_linux.conf\fR, though -- for instance, to add
\fBdolvm\fR to the boot options on Gentoo systems that use LVM.

.TP
.B *
If you pass the \fB\-\-shim\fR option to the script (along with a filename
for a Shim binary), the script sets up for a Secure Boot configuration via
Shim. By default, this causes the rEFInd binary to be renamed as
\fBgrubx64.efi\fR. Recent versions of Shim support passing the name of the
follow-on program to Shim via a parameter, though. If you want to use this
feature, you can pass the \fB\-\-keepname\fR option to
\fBrefind\-install\fR.

.PP

After you run \fBrefind\-install\fR, you should peruse the script's output
to ensure that everything looks OK. \fBrefind\-install\fR displays error
messages when it encounters errors, such as if the ESP is mounted read-only
or if you run out of disk space. You may need to correct such problems
manually and re\-run the script. In some cases you may need to fall back on
manual installation, which gives you better control over details such as
which partition to use for installation.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
.B \-\-notesp
This option, which is valid only under OS X, tells \fBrefind-install\fR to
install rEFInd to the OS X root partition rather than to the ESP. This
behavior was the default in rEFInd 0.8.3 and earlier, so you may want to
use it when upgrading installations of that version, unless you used
\-\-esp (which is now the default behavior, although the \-\-esp option no
longer exists) or \-\-ownhfs. You may also want to use \-\-notesp on new
installations if you're sure you're not using whole\-disk encryption or
logical volumes.

.TP
.B \-\-usedefault \fIdevice-file\fR
You can install rEFInd to a disk using the default/fallback filename of
\fBEFI/BOOT/bootx64.efi\fR (as well as \fBEFI/BOOT/bootia32.efi\fR and
\fBEFI/BOOT/bootaa64.efi\fR, if the IA\-32 and ARM64
builds are available) using this option. The device\-file should be an
unmounted ESP, or at least a FAT partition, as in \fB\-\-usedefault
/dev/sdc1\fR. Your computer's NVRAM entries will not be modified when
installing in this way. The intent is that you can create a bootable USB
flash drive or install rEFInd on a computer that tends to "forget" its
NVRAM settings with this option. This option is mutually exclusive with
\-\-notesp and \-\-root.

.TP
.B \-\-ownhfs \fIdevice-file\fR
This option should be used only under OS X. It's used to install rEFInd to
an HFS+ volume other than a standard Mac boot volume. The result should be
that rEFInd will show up in the Mac's own boot manager. More importantly,
suspend\-to\-RAM operations may work correctly. Note that this option
requires an HFS+ volume that is not currently an OS X boot volume. This can
be a data volume or a dedicated rEFInd partition. The ESP might also work,
if it's converted to use HFS+; however, HFS+ is a non\-standard filesystem
for an ESP, and so is not recommended.

.TP
.B \-\-root \fImount-point\fR
This option is intended to help install rEFInd from a "live CD" or other
emergency system. To use it, you should mount your regular installation at
\fI/mount\-point\fR, including your /boot directory (if it's separate) at
\fI/mount\-point\fR/boot and (on Linux) your ESP at that location or at
\fI/mount\-point\fR/boot/efi. The \fBrefind\-install\fR script then
installs rEFInd to the appropriate location -- on Linux,
\fI/mount\-point\fR/boot/EFI/refind or
\fI/mount\-point\fR/boot/efi/EFI/refind, depending on where you've mounted
your ESP. Under OS X, this option is useful only in conjunction with
\-\-notesp, in which case rEFInd will install to
\fI/mount\-point\fR/EFI/refind. The script also adds an entry to your NVRAM
for rEFInd at this location. You cannot use this option with
\-\-usedefault. Note that this option is not needed when doing a dual-boot
Linux/OS X installation; just install normally in OS X.

.TP
.B \-\-nodrivers
Ordinarily \fBrefind\-install\fR attempts to install the driver required to
read /boot on Linux. This attempt works only if you're using ext2fs,
ext3fs, ext4fs, ReiserFS, or Btrfs on the relevant partition. If you want
to forego this driver installation, pass the \-\-nodrivers option. This
option is implicit when you use \-\-usedefault.

.TP
.B \-\-alldrivers
When you specify this option, \fBrefind\-install\fR copies all the driver
files for your architecture. You may want to remove unused driver files
after you use this option. Note that some computers hang or fail to work
with any drivers if you use this option, so use it with caution.

.TP
.B \-\-shim \fIshim\-filename\fR or \fB\-\-preloader \fIpreloader\-filename\fR\fB
If you pass this option to \fBrefind\-install\fR, the script will copy the
specified shim program file to the target directory, copy the
MokManager.efi file from the shim program file's directory to the target
directory, copy the 64-bit version of rEFInd as grubx64.efi, and register
shim with the firmware. (If you also specify \-\-usedefault, the NVRAM
registration is skipped. If you also use \-\-keepname, the renaming to
grubx64.efi is skipped.) When the target file is identified as PreLoader,
much the same thing happens, but \fBrefind\-install\fR copies HashTool.efi
instead of MokManager.efi and copies rEFInd as loader.efi rather than as
grubx64.efi. The intent is to simplify rEFInd installation on a computer
that uses Secure Boot; when so set up, rEFInd will boot in Secure Boot
mode, with one caveat: The first time you boot, MokManager/HashTool will
launch, and you must use it to locate and install a public key or register
rEFInd as a trusted application. The rEFInd public key file will be located
in the rEFInd directory's keys subdirectory under the name refind.cer.

.TP
.B \-\-localkeys
This option tells \fBrefind\-install\fR to generate a new Machine Owner Key
(MOK), store it in /etc/refind.d/keys as refind_local.*, and re-sign all
the 64-bit rEFInd binaries with this key before installing them. This is
the preferable way to install rEFInd in Secure Boot mode, since it means
your binaries will be signed locally rather than with my own key, which is
used to sign many other users' binaries; however, this method requires that
both the \fBopenssl\fR and \fBsbsign\fR binaries be installed. The former
is readily available in most distributions' repositories, but the latter is
not, so this option is not the default.

.TP
.B \-\-encryptkeys
Ordinarily, if you use the \-\-localkeys option, \fBrefind\-install\fR
stores the local key files on your hard disk in an unencrypted form. Thus,
should your computer be compromised, the intruder could use your own key to
sign a modified boot loader, eliminating the benefits of Secure Boot. If you
use this option, then the private key is stored in an encrypted form,
secured via an encryption password. You must enter this password before the
key can be used to sign any binary, thus reducing the risk that an intruder
could hijack your boot process. This is obviously a highly desirable option,
but the downside is that you must remember the password and enter it
whenever you update rEFInd or any other program signed with your private
key. This also makes a fully automated update of rEFInd impossible.

.TP
.B \-\-keepname
This option is useful only in conjunction with \-\-shim. It tells
\fBrefind\-install\fR to keep rEFInd's regular filename (typically
refind_x64.efi) when used with shim, rather than rename the binary to
grubx64.efi. This change cuts down on the chance of confusion because of
filename issues; however, this feature requires that shim be launched with
a command-line parameter that points to the rEFInd binary under its real
name. versions of shim prior to 0.7 do not properly support this feature.
(Version 0.4 supports it but with a buggy interpretation of the follow-on
loader specification.) If your NVRAM variables become corrupted or are
forgotten, this feature may make rEFInd harder to launch. This option is
incompatible with \-\-usedefault and is unavailable when run under OS X or
without the \-\-shim option. If the script discovers an existing rEFInd
installation under EFI/BOOT or EFI/Microsoft/Boot and no other rEFInd
installation when this option is used, it will abort.

.TP
.B \-\-yes
This option causes the script to assume a \fBY\fR input to every yes/no
prompt that can be generated under certain conditions, such as if you
specify \-\-shim but \fBrefind\-install\fR detects no evidence of a Secure
Boot installation. This option is intended mainly for use by scripts such
as those that might be used as part of an installation via an RPM or Debian
package.

.SH "AUTHORS"
Primary author: Roderick W. Smith (rodsmith@rodsbooks.com)

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mkrlconf (8),
.BR mvrefind (8).

\fIhttps://www.rodsbooks.com/refind/\fR

.SH "AVAILABILITY"
The \fBrefind\-install\fR command is part of the \fIrEFInd\fR package and is
available from Roderick W. Smith.
